**Introduction**

*导言*

Startup companies need to purchase equipment, rent offices, and hire
staff. More importantly, they need to grow. In almost every case they
will require outside capital to do these things.

初创公司需要购买设备、租用办公室和雇用员工。更重要的是，他们需要成长。在几乎每一种情况下，他们都需要外部资本来做这些事情。

The initial capital raised by a company is typically called "seed"
capital. This brief guide is a summary of what startup founders need to
know about raising the seed funds critical to getting their company off
the ground.

公司最初筹集的资金通常称为“种子”资本。这篇简短的指南总结了初创公司创始人需要了解的关于筹集种子基金对公司起步至关重要的知识。

This is not intended to be a complete guide to fundraising. It includes
only the basic knowledge most founders will need. The information comes
from my experiences working at startups, investing in startups, and
advising startups at Y Combinator and Imagine K12. YC partners naturally
gain a lot of fundraising experience and YC founder Paul Graham (PG) has
written extensively on the
topic [1](https://blog.ycombinator.com/how-to-raise-a-seed-round/#e1), [2](https://blog.ycombinator.com/how-to-raise-a-seed-round/#e2), [3](https://blog.ycombinator.com/how-to-raise-a-seed-round/#e3), [4](https://blog.ycombinator.com/how-to-raise-a-seed-round/#e4).
His essays cover in more detail much of what is contained in this guide
and are highly recommended reading.

这并不是一份完整的筹款指南。它只包括大多数创始人需要的基本知识。这些信息来自于我在初创公司工作、投资初创公司以及为Y Combinator和Imagine K12公司提供咨询的经历。YC partners naturally gain a lot of fundraising experience and YC founder Paul Graham(PG)has written extensively on the topic [1](https://blog.ycombinator.com/how-to-raise-a-seed-round/#e1)， [2](https://blog.ycombinator.com/how-to-raise-a-seed-round/#e2)， [3](https://blog.ycombinator.com/how-to-raise-a-seed-round/#e3)， [4](https://blog.ycombinator.com/how-to-raise-a-seed-round/#e4).他的文章更详细地涵盖了本指南所包含的内容，并被强烈推荐阅读。

**Why Raise Money?**

*为什么筹集资金？*

Without startup funding the vast majority of startups will die. The
amount of money needed to take a startup to profitability is usually
well beyond the ability of founders and their friends and family to
finance. A startup here means a company that is built to grow
fast [12](https://blog.ycombinator.com/how-to-raise-a-seed-round/#e12).
High growth companies almost always need to burn capital to sustain
their growth prior to achieving profitability. A few startup companies
do successfully bootstrap (self-fund) themselves, but they are the
exception. Of course, there are lots of great companies that aren't
startups. Managing capital needs for such companies is not covered
herein.

如果没有启动资金，绝大多数初创企业都会倒闭。要使一家初创企业实现盈利，所需的资金数额通常远远超出了创始人及其朋友和家人的融资能力。这里的初创公司意味着一家成长迅速的公司[12](https：/blog.y合ator.com/如何融资-一个种子-圆/#e12)。高增长公司几乎总是需要消耗资本来维持增长，然后才能实现盈利。少数几家初创公司自己也成功地启动了自己的业务，但它们是个例外。当然，有很多伟大的公司不是初创企业。管理这类公司的资本需求不在此范围内。

Cash not only allows startups to live and grow, a war chest is also
almost always a competitive advantage in all ways that matter: hiring
key staff, public relations, marketing, and sales. Thus, most startups
will almost certainly want to raise money. The good news is that there
are lots of investors hoping to give the right startup money. The bad
news is, "Fundraising is
brutal" [1](https://blog.ycombinator.com/how-to-raise-a-seed-round/#e1).
The process of raising that money is often long, arduous, complex, and
ego deflating. Nevertheless, it is a path almost all companies and
founders must walk, but when is the time right to raise?

现金不仅使初创企业得以生存和成长，而且在所有重要方面也几乎总是一种竞争优势：招聘关键员工、公关、市场营销和销售。因此，大多数初创企业几乎肯定希望筹集资金。好消息是，很多投资者希望给出合适的启动资金。坏消息是，“筹资是残酷的”[1](https：/blog.y合ator.com/如何筹集种子轮/#e1)。筹集这笔钱的过程往往是漫长的、艰巨的、复杂的和自我消瘦的。然而，这是一条几乎所有公司和创始人都必须走的路，但何时才是筹集资金的合适时机？

**When to Raise Money**

*何时筹集资金*

Investors write checks when the idea they hear is compelling, when they
are persuaded that the team of founders can realize its vision, and that
the opportunity described is real and sufficiently large. When founders
are ready to tell this story, they can raise money. And usually when you
can raise money, you should.

当他们听到的想法是令人信服的，当他们相信创始人团队能够实现他们的愿景，所描述的机会是真实的和足够大的时候，投资者就会写支票。当创始人准备好讲述这个故事时，他们可以筹集资金。通常当你能筹到钱的时候，你应该。

For some founders it is enough to have a story and a reputation.
However, for most it will require an idea, a product, and some amount of
customer adoption, a.k.a. traction. Luckily, the software development
ecosystem today is such that a sophisticated web or mobile product can
be built and delivered in a remarkably short period of time at very low
cost. Even hardware can be rapidly prototyped and tested.

对于一些创始人来说，拥有一个故事和声誉就足够了。然而，对大多数人来说，这需要一个想法、一个产品和一定数量的客户采用，也就是牵引力。幸运的是，今天的软件开发生态系统可以在非常短的时间内以非常低的成本构建和交付复杂的Web或移动产品。甚至硬件也可以快速原型化和测试。

But investors also need persuading. Usually a product they can see, use,
or touch will not be enough. They will want to know that there is
product market fit and that the product is experiencing actual growth.

但投资者也需要说服。通常，他们可以看到、使用或触摸的产品是不够的。他们会想知道是否有适合的产品市场和产品正在经历实际增长。

Therefore, founders should raise money when they have figured out what
the market opportunity is and who the customer is, and when they have
delivered a product that matches their needs and is being adopted at an
interestingly rapid rate. How rapid is interesting? This depends, but a
rate of 10% per week for several weeks is impressive. And to raise money
founders need to impress. For founders who can convince investors
without these things, congratulations. For everyone else, work on your
product and talk to your users.

因此，创办人应该在弄清楚什么是市场机会、谁是客户、以及当他们交付了一种符合他们需求的产品并以有趣的速度被采纳时，就应该筹集资金。多快才是有趣的？这要视情况而定，但数周内每周10%的比率是令人印象深刻的。为了筹集资金，创始人需要给人留下深刻的印象。对于那些没有这些东西就能说服投资者的创始人来说，恭喜你们。对于其他人来说，工作在你的产品和与你的用户交谈。

**How Much to Raise?**

*要筹集多少？*

Ideally, you should raise as much money as you need to reach
profitability, so that you'll never have to raise money again. If you
succeed in this, not only will you find it easier to raise money in the
future, you'll be able to survive without new funding if the funding
environment gets tight. That said, certain kinds of startups will need a
follow-on round, such as those building hardware. Their goal should be
to raise as much money as needed to get to their next "fundable"
milestone, which will usually be 12 to 18 months later.

理想情况下，你应该筹集尽可能多的资金，以达到盈利能力，这样你就不用再筹集资金了。如果你在这方面取得成功，你不仅会发现在未来更容易筹集资金，而且如果融资环境变得紧张，你将能够在没有新资金的情况下生存下来。也就是说，某些类型的初创企业将需要一个后续的回合，例如那些建筑硬件。他们的目标应该是筹集足够多的资金，以达到他们下一个“可资助”的里程碑，通常在12到18个月后。

In choosing how much to raise you are trading off several variables,
including how much progress that amount of money will purchase,
credibility with investors, and dilution. If you can manage to give up
as little as 10% of your company in your seed round, that is wonderful,
but most rounds will require up to 20% dilution and you should try to
avoid more than 25%. In any event, the amount you are asking for must be
tied to a believable plan. That plan will buy you the credibility
necessary to persuade investors that their money will have a chance to
grow. It is usually a good idea to create multiple plans assuming
different amounts raised and to carefully articulate your belief that
the company will be successful whether you raise the full or some lesser
amount. The difference will be how fast you can grow.

在选择筹集多少资金时，你要从几个变量中进行权衡，包括这笔资金将带来多少进展、投资者的可信度和稀释程度。如果你能在你的种子轮中放弃10%的公司，那是很棒的，但大多数回合将需要20%的稀释，你应该尽量避免超过25%。无论如何，你所要求的金额必须与一个可信的计划挂钩。这一计划将为你赢得必要的可信度，以说服投资者相信他们的资金将有增长的机会。这通常是一个好主意，创建多个计划，假设不同的数额，并仔细阐明你的信念，公司会成功，无论你筹集的全部或较少的数额。不同之处在于你能以多快的速度成长。

One way to look at the optimal amount to raise in your first round is to
decide how many months of operation you want to fund. A rule of thumb is
that an engineer (the most common early employee for Silicon Valley
startups) costs all-in about \$15k per month. So, if you would like to
be funded for 18 months of operations with an average of five engineers,
then you will need about 15k x 5 x 18 = \$1.35mm. What if you are
planning to hire for other positions as well? Don't worry about it! This
is just an estimate and will be accurate enough for whatever mix you
hire. And here you have a great answer to the question: "How much are
you raising?" Simply answer that you are raising for N months (usually
12-18) and will thus need \$X, where X will usually be between \$500k
and \$1.5 million. As noted above, you should give multiple versions of
N and a range for X, giving different possible growth scenarios based on
how much you successfully raise.

第一轮融资的最佳金额之一是决定你想投资多少个月的运营期。经验法则是，工程师(硅谷初创公司最常见的早期员工)每月的总成本约为15000美元。所以，如果你想得到资金用于18个月的运营，平均有5名工程师，那么你将需要大约15K×5x18=1.35mm。如果你也打算雇用其他职位呢？不必为那事担心了这只是一个估计，并将足够准确的混合你雇用。在这里，你对这个问题有了一个很好的答案：“你筹集了多少？”只需回答你正在筹集的N个月(通常为12-18个月)，因此需要\$X，其中X通常在50万到150万美元之间。如前所述，您应该为X提供多个版本的N和一个范围，根据您成功筹集的金额给出不同的可能增长方案。

There is enormous variation in the amount of money raised by companies.
Here we are concerned with early raises, which usually range from a few
hundreds of thousands of dollars up to two million dollars. Most first
rounds seem to cluster around six hundred thousand dollars, but largely
thanks to increased interest from investors in seed, these rounds have
been increasing in size over the last several years.

公司筹集的资金有很大的差异。这里我们关注的是早期加薪，通常从几十万美元到200万美元不等。第一轮融资似乎集中在60万美元左右，但在很大程度上是由于投资者对SEED的兴趣增加，这几轮的规模在过去几年一直在扩大。

**Financing Options**

*筹资备选方案*

Startup founders must understand the basic concepts behind venture
financing. It would be nice if this was all very simple and could be
explained in a single paragraph. Unfortunately, as with most legal
matters, that's not possible. Here is a very high level summary, but it
is worth your time to read more about the details and pros and cons of
various types of financing and, importantly, the key terms of such deals
that you need to be aware of, from preferences to option pools. The
articles below are a decent start.

创业创始人必须了解风险融资背后的基本概念。如果这一切都很简单，可以用一个段落来解释，那就太好了。不幸的是，和大多数法律问题一样，这是不可能的。这里有一个非常高层次的总结，但值得您花更多时间阅读更多关于各种类型融资的细节和利弊的文章，更重要的是，您需要知道这些交易的关键条款，从首选项到期权池。下面的文章是一个不错的开端。

-   [Venture Hacks / Babk Nivi: Should I Raise Debt or
     Equity](http://venturehacks.com/articles/debt-or-equity)

-[Venture Hack/Babk Nivi：我应该筹集债务还是股本](http：/venturehacks.com/条文/债务或股本)

-   [Fred Wilson: Financing
     Options](http://www.avc.com/a_vc/2011/07/financing-options-convertible-debt.html)

-[Fred Wilson：Funding Options](http：/www.avc.com/a_vc/2011/07/Funding-Options-可兑换-Debt.html)

-   [Mark Suster on Convertible
     Debt](https://bothsidesofthetable.com/the-truth-about-convertible-debt-at-startups-and-the-hidden-terms-you-didn-t-understand-9fccf6854dee#.z63i0cy5g)

-[可转换债务的马克·苏斯特](https：/bothsidesofthetable.com/有关可转换债务的真相-在创业公司和隐藏条款-你不明白-9fccf6854dee#.z63i0cy5g)

-   [Announcing the
     Safe](https://ycombinator.wpengine.com/announcing-the-safe-a-replacement-for-convertible-notes)

-[宣布保险柜](https：/ybinator.wpEngine.com/宣告-安全-替换可转换票据

 Venture financing usually takes place in "rounds," which have
 traditionally had names and a specific order. First comes a seed
 round, then a Series A, then a Series B, then a Series C, and so on to
 acquisition or IPO. None of these rounds are required and, for
 example, sometimes companies will start with a Series A financing
 (almost always an "equity round" as defined below). Recall that we are
 focusing here exclusively on seed, that very first venture round.

风险融资通常是在“回合”进行的，传统上有名字和特定的顺序。首先是种子轮，然后是A系列，然后是B系列，然后是C系列，等等。这些回合都不需要，例如，有时公司会从A系列融资开始(几乎总是下文所定义的“股本一轮”)。请记住，我们在这里只关注种子，这是第一轮冒险。

 Most seed rounds, at least in Silicon Valley, are now structured as
 either convertible debt or simple agreements for future equity
 (safes) [17](https://blog.ycombinator.com/how-to-raise-a-seed-round/#e17).
 Some early rounds are still done with equity, but in Silicon Valley
 they are now the exception.

大多数种子回合(至少在硅谷)现在的结构要么是可转换债务，要么是未来股权的简单协议(Safes)[17](https：/blog.yCombinator.com/如何融资-一轮融资轮/#E17)。早期的几轮融资仍以股权形式进行，但在硅谷，它们现在是个例外。

 **Convertible Debt**

*可转换债务*

 Convertible debt is a loan an investor makes to a company using an
 instrument called a convertible note. That loan will have a principal
 amount (the amount of the investment), an interest rate (usually a
 minimum rate of 2% or so), and a maturity date (when the principal and
 interest must be repaid). The intention of this note is that it
 converts to equity (thus, "convertible") when the company does an
 equity financing. These notes will also usually have a "Cap" or
 "Target Valuation" and / or a discount. A Cap is the maximum effective
 valuation that the owner of the note will pay, regardless of the
 valuation of the round in which the note converts. The effect of the
 cap is that convertible note investors usually pay a lower price per
 share compared to other investors in the equity round. Similarly, a
 discount defines a lower effective valuation via a percentage off the
 round valuation. Investors see these as their seed "premium" and both
 of these terms are negotiable. Convertible debt may be called at
 maturity, at which time it must be repaid with earned interest,
 although investors are often willing to extend the maturity dates on
 notes.

可转换债券是投资者使用一种称为可转换票据的工具向公司提供的贷款。该贷款将有本金(投资金额)、利率(通常最低利率为2%左右)和到期日(本金和利息必须偿还)。本说明的目的是在公司进行股权融资时将其转换为股权(因此，“可转换”)。这些票据通常也有“上限”或“目标估值”和/或折扣。上限是票据的所有人将支付的最高有效估价，而不论票据转换的那一轮的估值如何。这一上限的影响是，可转换票据投资者通常比股票周期中的其他投资者支付更低的每股价格。同样，贴现率通过从整轮估值中扣除一定百分比来定义较低的有效估值。投资者认为这是他们的种子“溢价”，这两个条件都是可以商量的。可转换债券可能在到期时被称为可转换债券，在到期时必须用赚取的利息偿还，尽管投资者通常愿意延长票据的到期日。

 **Safe**

*安全*

 Convertible debt has been almost completely replaced by the safe at YC
 and Imagine K12. A safe acts like convertible debt without the
 interest rate, maturity, and repayment requirement. The negotiable
 terms of a safe will almost always be simply the amount, the cap, and
 the discount, if any. There is a bit more complexity to any
 convertible security, and much of that is driven by what happens when
 conversion occurs. I strongly encourage you to read the safe
 primer [18](https://blog.ycombinator.com/how-to-raise-a-seed-round/#e18),
 which is available on [YC's
 site](http://www.ycombinator.com/documents/). The primer has several
 examples of what happens when a safe converts, which go a long way
 toward explaining how both convertible debt and safes work in
 practice.

可转换债券几乎完全被YC和ImageK12的外管局所取代。一个安全的行为像没有利率，期限和偿还要求的可转换债务。可转让的安全条款几乎总是简单的金额，上限和折扣，如果有的话。任何可转换安全性都要复杂一些，其中很大一部分是由转换发生时发生的情况驱动的。我强烈鼓励你阅读“安全入门”[18](https：/blog.ybinator.com/How-to-revinga-a-eed-圆形/#E18)，它可在[yc‘s网站](http：/www.y合ator.com/documents/)上查阅。入门有几个例子，当一个安全的转变，这对解释可转换债务和保险柜如何在实践中都有很长的路要走。

 **Equity**

*公平*

 An equity round means setting a valuation for your company (generally,
 the cap on the safes or notes is considered as a company's notional
 valuation, although notes and safes can also be uncapped) and thus a
 per-share price, and then issuing and selling new shares of the
 company to investors. This is always more complicated, expensive, and
 time consuming than a safe or convertible note and explains their
 popularity for early rounds. It is also why you will always want to
 hire a lawyer when planning to issue equity.

股权轮意味着为你的公司设定一个估值(通常，对保险柜或债券的上限被认为是公司的名义估值，尽管票据和保险柜也可以被取消上限)，因此也意味着每股价格，然后向投资者发行和出售公司的新股。这总是比安全或可兑换纸币更复杂、更昂贵、更耗时，并解释了它们在早期流行的原因。这也是为什么当你计划发行股票时，你总是想聘请一名律师。

 To understand what happens when new equity is issued, a simple example
 helps. Say you raise \$1,000,000 on a \$5,000,000 pre-money valuation.
 If you also have 10,000,000 shares outstanding then you are selling
 the shares at:

要了解发行新股时会发生什么，一个简单的例子就会有所帮助。假设你在5，000，000美元的预估值基础上筹集了1，000，000美元。如果你还发行了10，000，000股，那么你是在：

1.  **\$5,000,000 / 10,000,000 = 50 cents per share**\
     and you will thus sell...

1.*$5，000，000/10，000，000=每股50美分*\你将因此出售.

2.  **2,000,000 shares**\
     resulting in a new share total of...

2.*2，000，000股*\导致新份额共计.

3.  **10,000,000 + 2,000,000 = 12,000,000 shares**\
     and a post-money valuation of...

3.*10，000，000+2，000，000=12，000，000股*

4.  **\$0.50 \* 12,000,000 = \$6,000,000**\
     and dilution of...

4.*\0.50\*12，000，000=6，000，000*和稀释.

5.  **2,000,000 / 12,000,000 = 16.7%**\
     Not 20%!

5.*2，000，000/12，000，000=16.7%*不等于20%！

 There are several important components of an equity round with which
 you must become familiar when your company does a priced round,
 including equity incentive plans (option pools), liquidation
 preferences, anti-dilution rights, protective provisions, and more.
 These components are all negotiable, but it is usually the case that
 if you have agreed upon a valuation with your investors (next
 section), then you are not too far apart, and there is a deal to be
 done. I won't say more about equity rounds, since they are so uncommon
 for seed rounds.

当你的公司进行一轮定价时，你必须熟悉一轮股票谈判的几个重要组成部分，包括股权激励计划(期权池)、清算偏好、反稀释权、保护条款等等。这些要素都是可谈判的，但通常情况下，如果你已经与投资者达成了估值协议(下一节)，那么你就不是。相隔太远了，还有一笔交易要做。我不会更多地谈论股权轮，因为它们在种子轮中是如此罕见。

 One final note: whatever form of financing you do, it is always best
 to use well-known financing documents like YC's safe. These documents
 are well understood by the investor community, and have been drafted
 to be fair, yet founder friendly.

最后一点：无论你做什么形式的融资，最好是使用众所周知的融资文件，如YC的安全。这些文件得到了投资界的充分理解，并被起草成公平的，但创始人友好的文件。

 **Valuation: What is my company worth?**

*估价：我的公司值多少钱？*

 You are two hackers with an idea, a few months of hacking's worth of
 software, and several thousand users. What is your company worth? It
 should be obvious that no formula will give you an answer. There can
 only be the most notional sort of justification for any value at all.
 So, how do you set a value when talking to a potential investor? Why
 do some companies seem to be worth \$20mm and some \$4mm? Because
 investors were convinced that was what they were (or will be in the
 near future) worth. It is that simple. Therefore, it is best to let
 the market set your price and to find an investor to set the price or
 cap. The more investor interest your company generates, the higher
 your value will trend.

你是两个有想法的黑客，几个月的黑客软件，几千名用户。你的公司值多少钱？很明显，没有公式能给你答案。任何价值都只能有最合理的理论依据。那么，当你和一个潜在的投资者交谈时，你是如何设定一个价值的呢？为什么有些公司看起来身价2000万美元，有些公司价值400万美元？因为投资者确信这就是他们的价值(或在不久的将来)。就这么简单。因此，最好是让市场决定你的价格，并找到一个投资者来设定价格或上限。你的公司引起的投资者兴趣越多，你的价值就会越高。

 Still, it can be difficult in some circumstances to find an investor
 to tell you what you are worth. In this case you can choose a
 valuation, usually by looking at comparable companies who have
 valuations. Please remember that the important thing in choosing your
 valuation is not to over-optimize. The objective is to find a
 valuation with which you are comfortable, that will allow you to raise
 the amount you need to achieve your goals with acceptable dilution,
 and that investors will find reasonable and attractive enough to write
 you a check. Seed valuations tend to range from \$2mm-\$10mm, but keep
 in mind that the goal is not to achieve the best valuation, nor does a
 high valuation increase your likelihood of success.

然而，在某些情况下，很难找到一个投资者来告诉你的价值。在这种情况下，你可以选择一个估值，通常是通过查看具有估值的可比公司。请记住，在选择你的估值时，重要的是不要过分优化。我们的目标是找到一个让你感到舒服的估值，这样你就可以通过可接受的稀释来提高你实现目标所需的金额，并且投资者会发现有足够的理由和吸引力给你开一张支票。种子估值一般在200万到1000万之间，但要记住，目标不是要达到最佳估值，高估值也不会增加你成功的可能性。

 **Investors: Angels & Venture Capitalists**

*投资者：天使和风险资本家*

 The difference between an angel and a VC is that angels are amateurs
 and VCs are pros. VCs invest other people's money and angels invest
 their own on their own terms. Although some angels are quite rigorous
 and act very much like the pros, for the most part they are much more
 like hobbyists. Their decision making process is usually much
 faster--they can make the call all on their own--and there is almost
 always a much larger component of emotion that goes into that
 decision.

天使和风投之间的区别是天使是业余的，风投是专业的。风投公司投资他人的钱，天使以自己的方式投资。虽然有些天使非常严谨，表现得很像专业人士，但在大多数情况下，他们更像狂热者。他们的决策过程通常要快得多-他们可以自己做出决定-几乎总是有一个更大的情感成分进入这个决定。

 VCs will usually require more time, more meetings, and will have
 multiple partners involved in the final decision. And remember, VCs
 see LOTS of deals and invest in very few, so you will have to stand
 out from a crowd.

风投通常需要更多的时间，更多的会议，并将有多个伙伴参与最终决定。请记住，风投公司看到了很多交易，投资很少，所以你必须从人群中脱颖而出。

 The ecosystem for seed (early) financing is far more complex now than
 it was even five years ago. There are many new VC firms, sometimes
 called "super-angels," or "micro-VC's", which explicitly target brand
 new, very early stage companies. There are also several traditional
 VCs that will invest in seed rounds. And there are a large number of
 independent angels who will invest anywhere from \$25k to \$100k or
 more in individual companies. New fundraising options have also
 arisen. For example, [AngelList
 Syndicates](https://angel.co/syndicates) lets angels pool their
 resources and follow a single lead
 angel. [FundersClub](http://www.fundersclub.com/founders) invests
 selectively like a traditional VC, but lets angels become LPs in their
 VC funds to expand connections available to its founders.

种子(早期)融资的生态系统现在比五年前要复杂得多。有许多新的风投公司，有时被称为“超级天使”或“微型风投公司”，明确针对全新的、非常早期的公司。还有一些传统的风投公司将投资种子轮。还有大量的独立天使，他们将在任何地方投资25000美元到10万美元或更多的个人公司。也出现了新的筹资选择。例如，[AngelList辛迪加](https：/angel.co/辛迪茨)让天使聚集他们的资源，并跟随一个单一的天使。[FundersClub](http：/www.fundersclub.com/Founders)像传统的风投一样有选择地投资，但让天使成为他们的风投基金中的合伙人，以扩大其创始人可以利用的联系。

 How does one meet and encourage the interest of investors? If you are
 about to present at a demo day, you are going to meet lots of
 investors. There are few such opportunities to meet a concentrated and
 motivated group of seed investors. Besides a demo day, by far the best
 way to meet a venture capitalist or an angel is via a warm
 introduction. Angels will also often introduce interesting companies
 to their own networks. Otherwise, find someone in your network to make
 an introduction to an angel or VC. If you have no other options, do
 research on VCs and angels and send as many as you can a **brief**,
 but compelling summary of your business and opportunity
 (see [Documents You
 Need](https://blog.ycombinator.com/how-to-raise-a-seed-round/#part12) below).

如何满足和鼓励投资者的兴趣？如果你要在演示日展示，你会遇到很多投资者。很少有这样的机会来会见集中和有积极性的种子投资者群体。除了一天的演示，到目前为止，与风险投资家或天使见面的最好方式是通过热情的介绍。天使们也会经常把有趣的公司介绍给他们自己的网络。否则，在你的网络中找个人介绍天使或风投。如果你没有其他选择，那就研究风投和天使，尽可能多地发送一份*简要*，但令人信服的关于你的业务和机会的总结(见[你需要的文件](https：/blog.ybinator.com/How to-a-eed-圆形/#Part 12)。

 **Crowdfunding**

*众筹*

 There are a growing number of new vehicles to raise money, such
 as [AngelList](https://angel.co/), [Kickstarter](https://blog.ycombinator.com/how-to-raise-a-seed-round/),
 and [Wefunder](https://blog.ycombinator.com/how-to-raise-a-seed-round/).
 These crowdfunding sites can be used to launch a product, run a
 pre-sales campaign, or find venture funding. In exceptional cases,
 founders have used these sites as their dominant fundraising source,
 or as clear evidence of demand. They usually are used to fill in
 rounds that are largely complete or, at times, to reanimate a round
 that is having difficulty getting off the ground. The ecosystem around
 investing is changing rapidly, but when and how to use these new
 sources of funds will usually be determined by your success raising
 through more traditional means.

筹集资金的新工具越来越多，比如[AngelList](https：/angel.co/)、[Kickstarter](https：/blog.y合ator.com/Https：/blog.y组合器/)和[wefunder](https：/blog.ybinator.com/How-to-筹资-a-种子-圆形/)。这些众筹网站可以用于发布产品、开展售前活动或寻找风险投资。在特殊情况下，创始人使用这些网站作为他们的主要筹资来源，或作为需求的明确证据。它们通常被用来填充基本上已经完成的回合，或者有时用来重新激活一轮在离开地面时遇到困难的回合。投资周围的生态系统正在迅速变化，但何时以及如何使用这些新的资金来源通常将取决于你通过更传统的方式筹集资金的成功与否。

 **Meeting Investors**

*会见投资者*

 If you are meeting investors at an investor day, remember that your
 goal is not to close--it is to get the next meeting. Investors will
 seldom choose to commit the first day they hear your pitch, regardless
 of how brilliant it is. So book lots of meetings. Keep in mind that
 the hardest part is to get the first money in the company. In other
 words, meet as many investors as possible but focus on those most
 likely to close. Always optimize for getting money soonest (in other
 words, be
 greedy) [2](https://blog.ycombinator.com/how-to-raise-a-seed-round/#e2).

如果你是在投资者日会见投资者，记住你的目标不是结束-这是为了得到下一次会议。投资者很少会选择第一天承诺，他们听到你的介绍，不管它是多么精彩。所以订很多会议。记住，最困难的部分是获得公司的第一笔钱。换句话说，尽可能多地与投资者会面，但要关注那些最有可能收市的投资者。总是为了尽快拿到钱而优化(换句话说，要贪婪)[2](https：/blog.y合ator.com/如何筹集种子/#e2)。

 There are a few simple rules to follow when preparing to meet with
 investors. First, make sure you know your audience--do research on
 what they like to invest in and try to figure out why. Second,
 simplify your pitch to the essential--why this is a great product
 (demos are almost a requirement nowadays), why you are precisely the
 right team to build it, and why together you should all dream about
 creating the next gigantic company. Next make sure you listen
 carefully to what the investor has to say. If you can get the investor
 to talk more than you, your probability of a deal skyrockets. In the
 same vein, do what you can to connect with the investor. This is one
 of the main reasons to do research. An investment in a company is a
 long term commitment and most investors see lots of deals. Unless they
 like you and feel connected to your outcome, they will most certainly
 not write a check.

在准备与投资者会面时，有几条简单的规则要遵守。首先，确保你了解你的听众-研究他们喜欢投资什么，并试图找出原因。第二，把你的推销简化到本质-为什么这是一个伟大的产品(现在演示几乎是一项要求)，为什么你是建立它的正确的团队，以及为什么你们应该一起梦想创建下一个巨大的公司。接下来，确保你仔细听取投资者的意见。如果你能让投资者说的比你多，你达成交易的可能性就会上升。同样，尽你所能与投资者建立联系。这是进行研究的主要原因之一。对一家公司的投资是一种长期的承诺，大多数投资者看到了很多交易。除非他们喜欢你，并觉得与你的结果有关，否则他们肯定不会写支票。

 Who you are and how well you tell your story are most important when
 trying to convince investors to write that check. Investors are
 looking for compelling founders who have a believable dream and as
 much evidence as possible documenting the reality of that dream. Find
 a style that works for you, and then work as hard as necessary to get
 the pitch perfect. Pitching is difficult and often unnatural for
 founders, especially technical founders who are more comfortable in
 front of a screen than a crowd. But anyone will improve with practice,
 and there is no substitute for an extraordinary amount of practice.
 Incidentally, this is true whether you are preparing for a demo day or
 an investor meeting.

当你试图说服投资者写这张支票时，你是谁以及你讲得有多好是最重要的。投资者正在寻找有说服力的创始人，他们拥有一个可信的梦想，并且有尽可能多的证据来记录这一梦想的现实。找到一种适合你的风格，然后努力工作，使球场完美。投球对创始人来说是困难的，而且往往是不自然的，特别是那些在屏幕前比在人群面前更舒服的技术创始人。但是，任何人都会随着实践而进步，没有什么可以代替大量的实践。顺便说一句，不管你是在为演示日做准备还是为投资者会议做准备，这都是事实。

 During your meeting, try to strike a balance between confidence and
 humility. Never cross over into arrogance, avoid defensiveness, but
 also don't be a pushover. Be open to intelligent counterpoints, but
 stand up for what you believe and whether or not you persuade the
 investor just then, you'll have made a good impression and will
 probably get another shot.

会议期间，要在自信和谦逊之间取得平衡。永远不要跨入傲慢，避免防御性，但也不要推卸责任。对聪明的对手敞开心扉，但要坚持你所相信的，不管你是否说服了投资者，你都会给人留下好印象，而且可能还会得到另一次机会。

 Lastly, make sure you don't leave an investor meeting without an
 attempted close or at very minimum absolute clarity on next steps. Do
 not just walk out leaving things ambiguous.

最后，确保你不会离开一个投资者会议，没有试图结束，或在最低限度绝对明确的下一步。不要就这样走出去，让事情变得模棱两可。

 **Negotiating and Closing the Deal**

*谈判和达成协议*

 A seed investment can usually be closed rapidly. As noted above, it is
 an advantage to use standard documents with consistent terms, such as
 YC's safe. Negotiation, and often there is none at all, can then
 proceed on one or two variables, such as the valuation/cap and
 possibly a discount.

种子投资通常可以迅速关闭。如上所述，使用具有一致术语的标准文档是一种优势，例如YC的安全。谈判，往往根本没有，然后可以进行一个或两个变量，如估值/上限和可能的折扣。

 Deals have momentum and there is no recipe towards building momentum
 behind your deal other than by telling a great story, persistence, and
 legwork. You may have to meet with dozens of investors before you get
 that close. But to get started you just need to
 convince [5](https://blog.ycombinator.com/how-to-raise-a-seed-round/#e5)one
 of them. Once the first money is in, each subsequent close will get
 faster and
 easier [6](https://blog.ycombinator.com/how-to-raise-a-seed-round/#e6).

交易是有动力的，除了讲述一个伟大的故事、持之以恒和精益求精之外，没有任何方法可以在你的交易背后建立势头。在接近你之前，你可能得去见几十个投资者。但是要开始，你只需要说服[5](https：/blog.y合ator.com/如何筹集种子轮/#e5)其中之一。一旦第一笔资金到位，每一笔后续的收盘价都会变得更快、更容易[6](https：/blog.y合ator.com/如何筹集-一个种子圆圈/#e6)。

 Once an investor says that they are in, you are almost done. This is
 where you should rapidly close using a handshake
 protocol [19](https://blog.ycombinator.com/how-to-raise-a-seed-round/#e19).
 If you fail at negotiating from this point on, it is probably your
 fault.

一旦投资者说他们加入了，你就快完成了。在这里，你应该使用握手协议[19](https：/blog.ybinator.com/How-to RANING-a SEED-圆形/#E19)迅速结束。如果从现在开始你在谈判中失败了，那可能是你的错。

 **Negotiations**

*谈判*

 When you enter into a negotiation with a VC or an angel, remember that
 they are usually more experienced at it than you are, so it is almost
 always better not to try to negotiate in real-time. Take requests away
 with you, and get help from YC or Imagine K12 partners, advisors, or
 legal counsel. But also remember that although certain requested terms
 can be egregious, the majority of things credible VCs and angels will
 ask for tend to be reasonable. Do not hesitate to ask them to explain
 precisely what they are asking for and why. If the negotiation is
 around valuation (or cap) there are, naturally, plenty of
 considerations, e.g. other deals you have already closed. However, it
 is important to remember that the valuation you choose at this early
 round will seldom matter to the success or failure of the company. Get
 the best deal you can get--but get the deal! Finally, once you get to
 yes, don't wait around. Get the investor's signature and cash as soon
 as possible. One reason safes are popular is because the closing
 mechanics are as simple as signing a document and then transferring
 funds. Once an investor has decided to invest, it should take no
 longer than a few minutes to exchange signed documents online (for
 example
 via [Clerky](https://www.clerky.com/) or [Ironclad](https://ironclad.ai/))
 and execute a wire or send a check.

当你与风投或天使进行谈判时，请记住，他们通常比你更有经验，所以最好不要尝试实时谈判。带走你的请求，并得到YC或想象的K12合伙人，顾问，或法律顾问的帮助。但也要记住，尽管某些被要求的条款可能是令人震惊的，但大多数可信的风投和天使会要求的东西往往是合理的。不要犹豫，要求他们解释清楚他们想要什么和为什么。如果谈判是围绕估值(或上限)进行的，自然会有很多考虑因素，例如你已经完成的其他交易。然而，重要的是要记住，你在这一轮早期选择的估值对公司的成败几乎没有影响。得到你能得到的最好的交易-但是得到交易！最后，一旦你得到了“是”，就别再等了。尽快得到投资者的签名和现金。保险箱之所以受欢迎的原因之一是，关闭机制就像签署一份文件，然后转移资金一样简单。一旦投资者决定投资，在线交换签名文件(例如通过[文书](https：/www.lecky.com/)或[ironlay](https：/ironclad.ai/)不需花费几分钟时间，并执行电汇或发送支票。

 **Documents You Need**

*你需要的文件*

 Do not spend too much time developing diligence documents for a seed
 round. If an investor is asking for too much due diligence or
 financials, they are almost certainly someone to avoid. You will
 probably want an executive summary and a slide deck you can walk
 investors through and, potentially, leave behind so VCs can show to
 other partners.

不要花太多时间为种子圈开发勤奋文件。如果投资者要求过多的尽职调查或财务报告，他们几乎肯定是该避免的人。你可能会想要一份执行摘要和一张幻灯片，你可以带领投资者通过，并有可能留下风投，这样风险投资公司才能向其他合作伙伴展示。

 The executive summary should be one or two pages (one is better) and
 should include vision, product, team (location, contact info),
 traction, market size, and minimum financials (revenue, if any, and
 fundraising prior and current).

执行摘要应有一两页(其中一页更好)，并应包括愿景、产品、团队(地点、联系方式)、牵引力、市场规模和最低财务(如果有的话，以及以前和现在的筹资)。

 Generally make sure the slide deck is a coherent leave-behind.
 Graphics, charts, screenshots are more powerful than lots of words.
 Consider it a framework around which you will hang a more detailed
 version of your story. There is no fixed format or order, but the
 following parts are usually present. Create the pitch that matches
 you, how you present, and how you want to represent your company. Also
 note that like the executive summary, there are lots of similar
 templates online if you don't like this one.

通常情况下，要确保幻灯片是一个连贯的留言板。图形、图表、屏幕截图比很多文字都更强大。请考虑它是一个框架，你将围绕它挂起一个更详细的故事版本。没有固定的格式或顺序，但以下部分通常是存在的。创建与你匹配的音调，你如何呈现，以及你想如何代表你的公司。还请注意，与执行摘要一样，如果您不喜欢这个模板，在线上也有很多类似的模板。

1. **Your company / Logo / Tag Line**

1.*贵公司/标志/标签线*

2. **Your Vision** -- Your most expansive take on why your new company
exists.

2.*你的愿景*-你对新公司存在的最广泛的理解。

3. **The Problem** -- What are you solving for the customer--where is
their pain?

问题*-你在为顾客解决什么问题-他们的痛苦在哪里？

4. **The Customer** -- Who are they and perhaps how will you reach them?

4.*顾客*-他们是谁，也许你将如何联系他们？

5. **The Solution** -- What you have created and why now is the right
time.

5.*解决方案*-你创造了什么，为什么现在是正确的时机。

6. **The (huge) Market you are addressing** -- Total Available Market
(TAM) \\$1B if possible. Include the most persuasive evidence you have
that this is real.

6.*你正在处理的(巨大)市场*包括最有说服力的证据，这是真实的。

7. **Market Landscape** -- including competition, macro trends, etc. Is
there any insight you have that others do not?

7.*市场前景*-包括竞争、宏观趋势等。你有其他人没有的洞察力吗？

8. **Current Traction** -- list key stats / plans for scaling and future
customer acquisition.

8.*当前的牵引力*-列出主要的数据/计划，以扩大规模和未来的客户获取。

9. **Business model** -- how users translate to revenue. Actuals, plans,
hopes.

9.*商业模式*-用户如何转化为收入。实际计划希望。

10. **Team** -- who you are, where you come from and why you have what
it takes to succeed. Pics and bios okay. Specify roles.

10.*团队*-你是谁，你从哪里来，为什么你拥有成功所需的条件。照片和生物没问题。指定角色。

11. **Summary** -- 3-5 key takeaways (market size, key product insight,
traction)

11.*摘要*-3-5关键外卖(市场规模、关键产品洞察力、牵引力)

12. **Fundraising** -- Include what you have already raised and what you
are planning to raise now. Any financial projections may go here as
well. You can optionally include a summary product roadmap (6 quarters
max) indicating what an investment buys.

12.*筹款*-包括你已经筹集到的资金和计划现在筹集的资金。任何财务预测也可能出现在这里。您可以选择包括一个简要的产品路线图(最多6个季度)，指示投资购买什么。

**Next**

*下一个*

It is worth pointing out that startup investing is rapidly evolving and
it is likely that certain elements of this guide will at some point
become obsolete, so make sure to check for updates or future posts.
There is now an extraordinary amount of information available on raising
venture money. Several sources are referenced and more are listed at the
end of this document.

值得指出的是，创业投资正在迅速发展，而且本指南中的某些元素可能在某一时刻会过时，所以一定要检查更新或以后的帖子。现在有大量关于筹集风险资金的信息。参考了几个来源，并在本文档末尾列出了更多的来源。

Fundraising is a necessary, and sometimes painful task most startups
must periodically endure. A founder's goal should always be to raise as
quickly as possible and this guide will hopefully help founders
successfully raise their first round of venture financing. Often that
will seem like a nearly impossible task and when it is complete, it will
feel as though you have climbed a very steep mountain. But you have been
distracted by the brutality of fundraising and once you turn your
attention back to the future you will realize it was only a small
foothill on the real climb in front of you. It is time to get back to
work building your company.

筹资是必要的，有时也是痛苦的任务，大多数初创企业必须定期坚持下去。创办人的目标应该始终是尽快筹集，这份指南有望帮助创始人成功地筹集他们的第一轮风险融资。通常，这似乎是一项几乎不可能完成的任务，当它完成时，它会感觉就像你已经爬上了一座非常陡峭的山。但是你已经被残忍的筹款分散了注意力，一旦你把注意力转回到未来，你就会意识到这只是你面前真正攀登的一个小山脚。是时候回去工作了，建立你的公司。

*Many thanks to those whose knowledge or work have contributed to this
document. Of course, any errors are all mine. Please send any comments
or questions to <geoff@yahoo.com.*

*感谢那些为本文件作出贡献的知识或工作人员。当然，任何错误都是我的。请将任何评论或问题发送到<geoff@yahoo.com。

**Appendix**

*附录*

**Fundraising Rules to Follow**

*筹资规则应遵循*

-   Get fundraising over as soon as possible, and get back to building
     your product and company, but also...

-尽快筹集资金，回去建立你的产品和公司，但也.

-   Don't stop raising money too soon. If fundraising is difficult, keep
     fighting and stay alive.

-不要太早就停止筹款.如果筹款很困难，就继续战斗，活下去。

-   When raising, be "greedy": breadth-first search weighted by expected
     value [2](http://www.themacro.com/articles/2016/01/how-to-raise-a-seed-round/#e2).
     This means talk to as many people as you can, prioritizing the
     ones that are likely to close.

-在提高时，要“贪婪”：广度-以期望值加权的第一搜索[2](http：/www.片式搜索/文章/2016/01/如何筹资-a种子-圆形/#e2)。这意味着尽可能多地与人交谈，优先考虑可能结束的人。

-   Once someone says yes, don't delay. Get docs signed and the money in
     the bank as soon as possible.

-一旦有人答应了，不要拖延.尽快签收单据和银行里的钱。

-   Always hustle for leads. If you are the hottest deal of the hour,
     that's great, but everyone else needs to work like crazy to get
     angels and other venture investors interested.

-总是忙着找线索如果你是一小时内最热门的交易，那就太好了，但其他人都需要疯狂地工作才能吸引天使和其他风险投资者的兴趣。

-   Never screw anyone over. Hold yourself and others on your team to
     the highest ethical standards. The Valley is a very small place,
     and a bad reputation is difficult to repair. Play it straight and
     you will never regret it. You'll feel better for it, too.

-永远不要把任何人搞砸.让你自己和你的团队中的其他人遵守最高的道德标准。山谷是一个很小的地方，坏名声很难修复。直说，你就不会后悔了。你也会感觉好点的。

-   Investors have a lot of different ways to say no. The hardest thing
     for an entrepreneur is understanding when they are being turned
     down and being okay with it. PG likes to say, "If the soda is
     empty, stop making that awful sucking sound with the straw." But
     remember that they might be a "yes" another time, so part on the
     best possible terms.

-投资者有很多不同的方式说不。对于一个企业家来说，最难的事情是理解他们何时被拒绝，并接受它。PG喜欢说，“如果苏打水是空的，不要用吸管发出那种可怕的吸吮声。”但请记住，他们可能是一个“是”的另一次，所以部分按照最好的条件。

-   Develop a style that fits you and your company.

-发展一种适合你和你的公司的风格。

-   Stay organized. Co-founders should split tasks where possible. If
     necessary, use software like Asana to keep track of deals.

-保持组织性。联合创始人应该在可能的情况下分担任务。如果有必要的话，可以使用像Asana这样的软件来跟踪交易。

-   Have a thick skin but strike the right balance between confidence
     and humility. And never be arrogant.

-有厚皮，但要在自信和谦逊之间取得适当的平衡。永远不要傲慢。

**What Not to Do While Communicating with Investors**

*与投资者沟通时不要做什么*

**DON'T:**

*不要：*

-   Be dishonest in any way

-以任何方式不诚实

-   Be arrogant or unfriendly

-傲慢或不友好

-   Be overly aggressive

-过于咄咄逼人

-   Seem indecisive -- although it is okay to say you don't know yet.

-似乎犹豫不决-尽管可以说你还不知道。

-   Talk so much they cannot get a word in edgewise

-说得太多了，他们一句话也说不出来

-   Be slow to follow-up or close a deal

-跟进或完成交易要慢慢来

-   Break an agreement, verbal or written

-口头或书面违反协议

-   Create detailed financials

-编制详细的财务报告

-   Use ridiculous / silly market size numbers without
     clear justification

-在没有明确理由的情况下使用荒谬/愚蠢的市场规模数字

-   Claim you know something that you don't or be afraid to say you
     don't know

-声称你知道一些你不知道的事情，或者害怕说你不知道

-   Spend time on the obvious

-花时间在显而易见的事情上

-   Get caught up in unimportant minutiae -- don't let the meeting get
     away from you

-陷入不重要的琐事-别让会议从你身边溜走

-   Ask for an NDA

-申请NDA

-   Try to play investors off each other when you are not a
     fundraising ninja

-当你不是一个筹款忍者的时候，试着让投资者远离对方

-   Try to negotiate in real-time

-尝试实时谈判

-   Over-optimize your valuation or worry too much about dilution

-过度优化你的估值，或过于担心稀释

-   Take a "No" personally

-亲自提出“不”

**A Brief Glossary of Key Terms**

*关键术语简编*

The term you are looking for is not here? Disagree with the definition?
Go to [Investopedia](http://www.investopedia.com/) for a more
authoritative source.

你要找的那个词不在这里？不同意这个定义？请访问[Investopedia](http：/www.Investopedia.com/)，以获得更权威的来源。

-   **Angel Investor** -- A (usually) wealthy private investor in
     startup companies.

-*天使投资者*-(通常)创业公司中富有的私人投资者。

-   **Cap / Target Valuation** -- The maximum effective valuation for an
     investor in a convertible note.

*香港法例/目标估值*-投资者在可转换票据上的最高有效估值。

-   **Convertible Note** -- This is a debt instrument that will convert
     into stock; usually preferred stock but sometimes common stock.

-*可转换票据*-这是一种债务工具，将转换为股票；通常是优先股，但有时是普通股。

-   **Common Stock** -- Capital stock typically issued to founders and
     employees, having the fewest, or no, rights, privileges
     and preferences.

*普通股*

-   **Dilution** -- The percentage an ownership share is decreased via
     the issuance of new shares.

*稀释*-通过发行新股降低了所有权份额的百分比。

-   **Discount** -- A percentage discount from the pre-money valuation
     to give safe or note holders an effectively lower price.

*折扣*

-   **Equity Round** -- A financing round in which the investor
     purchases equity (stock) in the company.

-*股本回合*-投资者购买公司股权(股票)的一轮融资。

-   **Fully Diluted Shares** -- The total number of issued and
     outstanding shares of capital stock in the company, including
     outstanding warrants, option grants and other
     convertible securities.

*全稀释股份*-公司已发行及流通股的总数目，包括未发行认股权证、期权授予及其他可转换证券。

-   **IPO** -- Initial Public Offering -- the first sale of stock by a
     private company to the public.

*ipo*-首次公开发行-私营公司首次向公众出售股票。

-   **Lead Investor** -- Usually the first and largest investor in a
     round who brings others into the round.

-*领导投资者*-通常是第一位也是最大的投资者，把其他人带入这一轮。

-   **Liquidation Preference** -- A legal provision in a company's
     charter that allows stockholders with preferred stock to get their
     money out of a company before the holders of common stock in the
     event of an exit.

*清算优先权*-公司章程中的一项法律规定，允许持有优先股的股东在普通股持有人退出时先从公司提取资金。

-   **Maturity Date** -- The date at which a promissory note becomes due
     (or at which it will automatically convert to stock in the case of
     a convertible note)

-*到期日*-期票到期日期(如属可兑换票据，则自动转换为股票的日期)

-   **Equity Incentive Plan / Option Pool** -- The shares allocated and
     set aside for grants to employees and consultants.

*股权激励计划/期权池*-分配给雇员和顾问的股份，并预留给他们赠款。

-   **Preferred Stock** -- Capital stock issued in a company that have
     specific rights, privileges and preferences compared to the common
     stock. Convertible into common stock, either automatically (e.g.,
     in an IPO) or at the option of the preferred stockholder (e.g.,
     an acquisition).

*优先股*-与普通股相比拥有特定权利、特权和偏好的公司发行的股本。可自动转换为普通股(如首次公开发行)或由优先股持有人选择(例如收购)。

-   **Pre-money Valuation** -- The value of a company prior to when
     investor money is added.

-*货币前估值

-   **Pro-rata rights (aka pre-emptive rights)** -- Contractual rights
     that allow the holder to maintain their percentage ownership in
     subsequent financing rounds.

*赞成的权利(又称先发制人权利)*-允许持有人在随后几轮融资中保持其百分比所有权的合同权利。

-   **Protective Provisions** -- Provisions in a company's charter that
     give exclusive voting rights to holders of preferred stock. For
     example, the approval of these stockholders, voting separately
     from other stockholders, may be required for an acquisition.

*保护条文*-公司章程中给予优先股持有人专属投票权的条文。例如，收购可能需要这些股东独立于其他股东的批准。

-   **Safe** -- Simple Agreement for Future Equity -- Y Combinator's
     replacement for convertible debt.

*安全*

-   **TAM** -- Total Available Market. In pitches, this is the estimated
     total revenue available for the product(s) you are selling.

*TAM*-现有市场总数。以音高计，这是您所销售的产品的估计总收入。

-   **Venture Capitalist** -- A professional investor in companies,
     investing limited partners' funds.

*风险资本家*-公司的专业投资者，投资有限合伙人的基金。

**Sources**

*资料来源*

1.  [A Fundraising Survival
     Guide](http://www.paulgraham.com/fundraising.html), **Paul
     Graham** \
     Techniques for surviving and succeeding at fundraising

1.[筹款生存指南](http：/www.paulgraham.com/募捐.html)，*Paul Graham*\筹款时生存和成功的技巧

2.  [How To Raise Money](http://paulgraham.com/fr.html), **Paul
     Graham** \
     Detailed thoughts on fundraising. A must read.

2.[如何筹集资金](http://paulgraham.com/fr.html)，*PaulGraham*\关于筹款的详细想法。必须阅读。

3.  [The Equity Equation](http://paulgraham.com/equity.html), **Paul
     Graham** \
     How to decide if you should accept an offer from an investor

3.[股权方程](http://paulgraham.com/equity.html)，*Paul Graham*)如何决定是否应接受投资者的报价

4.  [The Future of Startup
     Funding](http://paulgraham.com/future.html), **Paul Graham** \
     How startup funding is evolving

4.[启动资金的未来](http://paulgraham.com/future.html)，*Paul Graham*\启动资金是如何演变的)

5.  [How to Convince
     Investors](http://paulgraham.com/convince.html), **Paul Graham** \
     How to convince investors to invest in you

5.[如何说服投资者](http：/paulgraham.com/令人信服e.html)，*保罗格雷厄姆*\如何说服投资者投资你

6.  [Investor Herd Dynamics](http://paulgraham.com/herd.html), **Paul
     Graham** \
     How investors think about investing in early stage companies

6.[投资者羊群动力](http://paulgraham.com/herd.html)，*Paul Graham*投资者如何考虑投资早期公司

7.  ["Venture
     Deals"](http://www.amazon.com/Venture-Deals-Smarter-Lawyer-Capitalist/dp/1118443616), **Feld
     and Mendelson** \
     Essential elements of a venture deal (book)

7.[“风险交易”](http：/www.amazon.com/Venture-Deals-Smarter-律师-Capital/DP/1118443616)，*Feld和Mendelson*\风险交易的基本要素(书)

8.  [Raising Money for a
     Startup](http://www.khanacademy.org/finance-economics/venture-capital-and-capital-markets/v/raising-money-for-a-startup), **Sal
     Khan** \
     Startup Fundraising from Sal Khan

8.[为创业筹集资金](http：/www.khanacademy.org/Finance-Economic/Venture-Capital-Market/v/募集-为一家初创企业筹集资金)，*Sal Khan*向Sal Khan筹集启动资金

9.  [Venture Hacks: Debt or
     Equity,](http://venturehacks.com/articles/debt-or-equity) **Babak
     Nivi** \
     Discussion on debt vs. equity

9.[风险投资：债务或股权，](http：/venturehacks.com/条文/债务或股本)*Babak Nivi*\讨论债务与股本

10. [Venture Hacks: First
     Time](http://venturehacks.com/articles/first-time), **Babak
     Nivi** \
     Advice for first time fundraisers.

10.[VentureHack：First Time](http：/venturehacks.com/条文/第一次)，*Babak Nivi*\第一次募捐者的建议。

11. [How Much Money To
     Raise](http://www.avc.com/a_vc/2011/07/how-much-money-to-raise.html), **Fred
     Wilson** \
     Advice on how much money to raise.

11.[筹集多少钱](http：/www.avc.com/a_vc/2011/07/How-Money-to-reve.html)，*Fred Wilson*\关于筹集多少资金的建议。

12. ["Startup = Growth"](http://www.paulgraham.com/growth.html), **Paul
     Graham** \
     Description of a startup.

12.[“Startup=Growth”](http：/www.paulgraham.com/growth th.html)，*Paul Graham*\描述一家初创公司。

13. [Venture Hacks / Babk Nivi: Should I Raise Debt or
     Equity](http://venturehacks.com/articles/debt-or-equity) \
     Discussion of whether raising debt or equity is the best answer.

13.[VentureHack/BabkNivi：我应该提高债务还是股本](http：/venturehacks.com/条文/债务或股本)\讨论提高债务还是股本是最好的答案。

14. [Fred Wilson: Financing
     Options](http://www.avc.com/a_vc/2011/07/financing-options-convertible-debt.html) \
     Another discussion of debt vs. equity

14.[弗雷德·威尔逊：融资方案](http：/www.avc.com/a_vc/2011/07/finding-Options-可兑换-Debt.html)\关于债务与股本的另一次讨论

15. [Mark Suster on Convertible
     Debt](http://www.bothsidesofthetable.com/2012/09/05/the-truth-about-convertible-debt-at-startups-and-the-hidden-terms-you-didnt-understand/) \
     An analysis of problems with convertible debt

15.[MarkSuster关于可转换债务“(http：/www.bothsidesofthetable.com/2012/09/05/-有关可转换债务的真相-在创业公司和隐藏条款-你-不理解/)-对可转换债务问题的分析

16. [Clerky Guide](https://www.clerky.com/transaction_templates/24) \
     Clerky docs and guides. A great place to start.

16.[文书指南](https：/www.cliky.com/Transaction_Template/24)\clky文档和指南。一个很好的起点。

17. [Announcing the
     Safe](https://ycombinator.wpengine.com/announcing-the-safe-a-replacement-for-convertible-notes), **Paul
     Graham** \
     The simple agreement for future equity. A replacement for
     convertible notes.

17.[宣布外管局](https：/ybinator.wpEngin.com/宣告-安全-一种可转换票据的替代品)，*保罗-格雷厄姆*-未来股权的简单协议。a可兑换票据的替代品。

18. [The Safe Primer](http://www.ycombinator.com/documents/), **Carolynn
     Levy** \
     Lots of detailed information on the safe and examples as to how it
     works in various cases.

18.[The Safe Primer](http：/www.y合ator.com/documents/)，*Carolynn Levy*\许多关于安全措施的详细信息，以及在各种情况下如何工作的例子。

19. [The Handshake Deal
     Protocol](https://www.ycombinator.com/handshake/), **Paul
     Graham** \
     A standard protocol to help ensure that verbal commitments turn
     into transactions.


19.[握手协议](https：/www.y合ator.com/握手/)，*Paul Graham*\一个帮助确保口头承诺转化为交易的标准协议。

